README.md, before:

# vmm-gsc-tracing
Tracing the Flanders sewer network

## Status
* Working implementation, up for review.

## Configuration
database properties have to be set in tracing.spring.xml<br />
if there is a specific CORS url you can set it in  TracingController.java with the annotation @CrossOrigin("yourspecificUrl:1234")

## How to install
```bash
# clone repository

# to build the project and execute tests
mvn install
```

## How to start
Run the main method in AppConfiguration.java<br />
*default port = 8080, you can change it by setting the VM option -Dserver.port=1234*


##Rest API GET
your host and port /tracing/{true/false}/{id}<br />
first parameter defines if you want to check up or downstream<br />
second parameter is the id from where the tracing needs to start

##Performance / info
**IdGraphBuilder**
Current implementation builds and traces an DirectedGraph&lt;Integer, Integer&gt; where the second Integer is the feature Id.<br />
After tracing we fetchAll entities by a collections of Integers (the ids).

**RioollinkGraphBuilder**
RioollinkGraphBuilder is similar to IdGraphBuilder but it contains the entity instead of the id.<br />
If you use RioollinkGraphBuilder the initial query will be slower but that will be the only one.<br />
If the data is static you can opt to enable caching.

If scaling becomes an issue it's advised to initialize the tracing graph at the start of the application.<br />
This will make the graph static.

## Licence 
*vmm-gsc-tracing-services* is free software, and may be redistributed under the MIT-LICENSE.

Commit message:

cache graph add war build change API (true/false for upstream/downstream was not clear)

README.md, after:

# vmm-gsc-tracing
Tracing the Flanders sewer network

## Status
* Working implementation.

## Configuration
database properties have to be set in tracing.spring.xml or with environment variable<br />
if there is a specific CORS url you can set it in  TracingController.java with the annotation @CrossOrigin("yourspecificUrl:1234")

## How to install
```bash
# clone repository

# to build the project and execute tests (standalone Spring boot application)
mvn install

# to build a war file deployable to any application server
mvn -f pom-war.xml install
```

## How to start
```bash
java -jar gsc-tracing-services.jar
```
Runs on port 8080 by default, you can change it with the VM option -Dserver.port=1234

or

Deploy the war artifact on an application server.

##Rest API GET
Request:
**/trace/{upstream|downstream}/{id}**<br />
first parameter defines if you want to trace up- or downstream<br />
second parameter is the id from where the tracing needs to start

Response: GeoJSON with all traced links, in no partical order.

##Performance / info
**IdGraphBuilder**
Builds a graph with id's only, no objects with all properties.
After tracing we fetchAll entities by a collections of Integers (the ids).
This is useful to always fetch the latest data, but that fetching has it's limitations and is a performance hit.
Remember to build the directed graph both upstream and downstream.<br />

**RioollinkGraphBuilder**
RioollinkGraphBuilder is similar to IdGraphBuilder but it contains the full entity instead of the id.<br />
Initial data lookup is slower, but the tracing itself is almost instant.
Works best if the data is static. This the current implementation.

## Licence 
*vmm-gsc-tracing-services* is free software, and may be redistributed under the MIT-LICENSE.
